Caravan Rules
1.0 REQUIREMENTS

1.1) Two-player game.

1.2) Two 52-card decks, plus Jokers; one deck for each player.

1.21) Optionally, you may play with one Joker each or no Jokers.

1.22) Optionally, each player may customize their own deck provided that it consists of at least 30 cards, and doesn't contain two of the precise card from the same playing deck (e.g. two 3 of diamonds from identical decks). The maximum amount of cards to be used should be agreed upon before the game. It is recommended that no more than four decks (216 cards) be used to make a player's deck, as there are only four different decks that can be used in the New Vegas version of the game.

2.0 SETUP

Player 1	
X	X	X
Caravan 1	Caravan 2	Caravan 3
X	X	X
Caravan 1	Caravan 2	Caravan 3
Player 2	
2.1) The "X's" above each caravan represent your card placements.

2.2) Throughout the game, Player 1's caravan 1 will be directly competing against Player 2's caravan 1 - the same goes for caravans 2 and 3.

3.0 OBJECTIVE

3.1) The objective is to sell two or three of your caravans at a higher sum, or "bid", than the opposing caravan it is competing against. The bid of a caravan is determined by adding together the total sum of each number card (including Kings; see part 5.36) played in that caravan.

3.2) A caravan is considered sold when it reaches a bid of 21-26; any bid that is higher or lower is not a sold caravan.

3.3) You may add onto an already sold caravan to increase its bid.

4.0 OPENING ROUND

4.1) To start, each player draws eight cards from their shuffled deck.

4.2) During this opening round you can only place number cards (2-10) or aces. The opening round in its entirety consists of three, alternating turns for each player, in which each player must use those turns to play a card face-up to start off each of their three caravans.

4.3) Since each of the three turns must be used to start off the player's caravans, if a player does not have three number cards or aces to play, then they must show their hand and reshuffle their deck, drawing eight new cards. You are not allowed to discard cards during this phase.

4.4) Once each player has taken turns placing their three cards, the opening round is over. During this opening round you do not re-draw cards, and after this phase ends both players will be continuing with five cards.

5.0 GAMEPLAY

5.1) Once the opening round ends, you are then permitted to play any card. Players will alternate turns, doing one of the following:

Play a card from your hand, then draw a new card.

Discard a card from your hand, then draw a new card.

Disband one of your caravan tracks. This removes all cards from one caravan to the discard pile.

5.2) Number Cards (A=1, 2-10=face value)

5.21) To play a number card refer to the last card played in the selected caravan - it must follow a suit or a numerical (ascending or descending) sequence. If there is only one card in the caravan, then the next number card played sets the numerical direction and determines the suit. From here, as long as a number card matches the suit or follows the numerical sequence, then it's allowed to be played in that caravan.

5.22) Numerical sequences don't need to be directly connected - you can go up from a three to a seven, or down from a seven to a three. In the latter case, the sequence is descending, so only a deuce or ace could be played as a number card.

5.23) If playing a card that matches suit is contrary to the current numerical sequence of that caravan, then the new card establishes a new numerical sequence for that caravan.

5.24) Under no circumstances are you allowed to play a number card on the same number card (e.g. a 10 on a 10).

5.25) Number cards can only be played within your own caravans.

5.3) Face Cards & Jokers (J, Q, K, Joker)

5.31) Jacks, Queens, Kings, and Jokers all have special effects. Unlike number cards, which are played overlapping each other downwards, these cards are attached to the side of and overlapping the card it is played on.

5.32) Face cards and Jokers can be played on both your and your opponent's caravans.

5.33) Face cards and Jokers don't need to follow suit or sequence, and can be played on any number card no matter the card's location in the caravan (Queen excluded; can only be placed at the bottom of a caravan, like an extending number card).

5.34) JACK (attach to a number card)- Removes the card the Jack is played on as well as any face cards/Jokers attached, to the discard pile.

5.35) QUEEN (placed extending a caravan bid)- Reverses the current numerical direction of the caravan, and changes the suit of the caravan to that of the Queen. Multiple Queens can be used on the same card to reverse the effects.

5.36) KING (attach to a number card)- Doubles the value of the card the King is played on. Multiple Kings can be used on the same card (e.g. 5-10,K = 25; 5-10,K,K = 45).

5.37) JOKER (attach to a number card)- If played on an ace, it removes all other number cards from both player's caravans that share the same suit of the ace (Queens altering the suit of a caravan will not save the card - the suit is considered what is printed on the number card). If played on a number card that is not an ace, it removes all other number cards of the same value/instance from both player's caravans. A played Joker only affects cards that have been played before it. In any case, the number card the Joker is played on is spared. All removed cards and their attaching face cards are sent to the discard pile.

5.38) Face cards and Jokers can be played/attached with full effect on cards with other face cards and Jokers attached. There can be no more than three face cards or Jokers attached/played to a single number card at one time. The only way to remove a card that has three face cards or Jokers attached to it is by the use of a Joker on another card, or by disbanding the caravan. A Jack (tested in New Vegas) can't be used to remove a number card that already has three face cards or Jokers attached to it.

5.4) If in the event (all tested in New Vegas) that a Jack or Joker removes a card, leaving a caravan sequence stuck with two identical number cards, then the sequence remains as it was before the card was removed (e.g. a Jack is played on the 7 in this caravan: 6-7,Q -6, leaving you with: 6-6. The sequence is descending, since before the Jack was played there was a downward sequence of 7 to 6). This only applies in situations where there are two identical number cards following each other (e.g. if a Jack or Joker removes the 6 in this caravan: 2-6hearts-4hearts, then the sequence is now ascending [2-4] and it doesn't matter that beforehand the sequence was descending).

5.5) After the opening round, if any caravan track becomes empty of cards, you are not required to start bidding on the empty caravan immediately. Technically, you could win the game with only two caravans.

5.6) Any card that is discarded or removed from play is added to the discard pile (discard piles should be separated between players). These cards can't be recovered.

6.0 WINNING

6.1) To score a caravan, you simply add the total sum of a caravan's number cards plus the added value of Kings to determine the caravan's bid.

6.2) Winning the game: It is important to note that if competing caravans are both sold at equal bids, then with that tie, neither caravan is considered sold. In this case, the game continues until there is no tie between competing caravans. The winning requirements are as follows: the game ends when a player has sold two or three of the competing caravans at higher bids than their opponent, and at least one of all the competing caravans has been sold by a player. The player with two or three of the higher sales wins the game.

6.3) If you run out of cards to play before meeting the criteria of winning, then your opponent automatically wins the game.